---
layout: post
title:  "Life Lessons from David"
date:   2017-06-15 16:16:01 -0600
image: '/images/pages/biblereaders_image.jpg'
---
Get ready for the book of Proverbs – have your high-lighter or journaling notebook beside you – Every time you see a “nugget” in this precious book, take note of it. There is enough “ammo” here to make you into a righteous, successful, rich and wise person (with great marriage and family relationships to boot)!
On to King David, who once again is anointed to speak wonderful Words from the Lord:

“I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing.” – Now this is a great principle for worship! If your worship “offerings” are a lazy affair – perhaps a spectator sport – then you are offering Him something that costs you nothing. Think of our offerings of worship for a moment. Since when is Church supposed to be free entertainment or a weird style of street busking where we drop something in an open guitar case only if we are impressed with “the performance”. Jesus said, “Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.” (Mark 12:30)

“You stoop down to make me great.” – What a revelation of Jesus Christ! – The One who quite literally stooped down to make US great. Just the thought that God wants YOU to be great is enough to turn your life on its ear! So – Be Great! Matthew 20: 25-27 reads, “Jesus called them together and said, ‘You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their high officials exercise authority over them. Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be your slave.”

“With Your help I can advance against a troop; with my God I can scale a wall.” – Here again is God’s magnificent perspective. It is found throughout Scripture yet it rarely becomes revelation in God’s children. It should be the norm however in those who live a Spirit-filled life. God delights to see you advance against a troop or start to scale a wall – then HE gets involved. Remember Jonathan and his armor bearer? This is literally what they did – scaled a cliff face and gained the victory, but we too scale all kinds of walls in life – things that take effort, courage, faith and cooperation with brothers.

Philippians 4:13 reads, “I can do everything through him who gives me strength.”

Questions:

1. Give another Biblical account of an offering that cost something.
Give an example of when you felt God was stooping down to make you great.
2. Tell of an instance where you stepped out to “scale a wall” and God gave you the strength to do it.
